# The Glosseta Foundation

The [Glosseta Foundation](https://www.glosseta.foundation) is a not-for-profit organization whose mission is to push forward accessible, decentralized, open and easily digestible Web3 content at a global scale to the everyday person.  Too much of today's Web3 educational content and documentation is geared towards a more technical audience and in most cases, doesn't make sense to the average person looking to learn the basics.  Furthermore, many prominent protocols and dApps have a hard time communicating their product to a non-technical audience. This is where the Glosseta Foundation is looking to make its mark with the help of the entire Web3 community.

**The problem with todays web3** 

Presently, much of the attention around Web3 (i.e. the new internet backed by blockchains) is surrounded by misinformation and misrepresentation of what it is and what it isn't.  The typical signals the average person is exposed to regarding Web3 casts a negative light instead of focusing on what the movement is trying to achieve.  A lot has to do with a perception that Web3 and [Cryptocurrency](https://www.glosseta.com/search?term=cryptocurrency) speculation are indistinguishable which is just not true.  Web3 is the umbrella that covers the entire ecosystem and Cryptocurrency is one of the core innovations that falls under it.   Indeed, Web3 is more than just Cryptocurrency but the world doesn't hear or see that narrative. Much of the current narrative comes from mainstream media amplifying negativity around the space to spread [FUD](https://www.glosseta.com/search?term=fud), celebrities taking advantage of their unknowing fans and in general people who frankly don't know what they're talking about.  These are not the informational sources our friends and family should have to rely on to learn the space.  We can do much better.

On the other side of the coin, regarding the reputable content that's out there, too much of today's documentation, educational oriented [DAO's](https://www.glosseta.com/search?term=dao) and communities are heavily developer-oriented.  At this moment, that content is important for Web3s growth as developers are needed more than ever to ensure future building blocks are in place.  Unfortunately, at this time no one is deeply concentrating on how the rest of the globe is supposed to understand Web3 and its surrounding ecosystem in a manner that doesn't require a technical background.  

To achieve it's mission, the Glosseta Foundation is looking to build around the following three pillars:

## Education

The primary mission of the Glosseta Foundation is to provide the best open, localized and decentralized educational platform for anybody of any skill level looking to learn about Web3 protocols, terms, common lingo, applications, and more. The main vessel for which this will become a reality is through the [Glosseta Platform](https://www.glosseta.com).

In its current form, Glosseta is an open, decentralized Web3 glossary for protocols, terms, people, applications, and more with the intent to demystify the Web3 space and ecosystem.  What makes Glosseta unique is how all of the glossary definition content displayed on the site is stored and served through the Arweave Storage Protocol.  With this type of approach, all future educational content will also be freely available, live forever and be censor-resistant.  Work is also being done to host Glosseta in a decentralized manner to make the application as censor-resistant as possible.

The north-star vision is turning Glosseta into the prominent educational platform for anyone looking to onboard into Web3 regardless of technical background. Initially, this will be driven through the creation of streamlined knowledge modules meant to introduce the fundamentals of Web3 to a broad audience.  Further down the line, these will extend into knowledge modules for the broader Web3 ecosystem akin to decentralized (and incentivized) Wikipedia.

## Unified Factual Data

To make the platform a reality, there needs to be a single source of truth for factual data that the entire Web3 community can contribute to and utilize as we move forward as a group.  Too much of today's Web3 content is a misrepresentation of the reality of its current and future landscape.  To add to the complexity of navigating the space, many of the prominent Web3 protocols, dApps, etc. have a hard time communicating their product to a non-technical audience and are missing a huge section of the population:  the people who are going to be everyday users of their product.

To bridge the gap and unify the Web3 community, the Glosseta Foundation is looking to spearhead the effort to build out and maintain a common, decentralized data API for factual data. Initially, this API will look to power the textual and media (image, video, audio) needs of the Glosseta Educational Platform but has the north-star vision to also power the factual data needs of the entire Web3 community. The API will be built in the spirit of Web3 using public decentralized storage protocols, IPFS, Livepeer and "layer 2" solutions over them to house and serve the data.

To bring credibility and accountability to the data, as well as to incentivize its upkeep, the Glosseta Foundation will look to create a protocol/mechanism (Glosseta Protocol) to act as a decentralized "gatekeeper" for things coming through the content pipeline.  The vision is to establish an ecosystem where content creators are incentivized to create (and upkeep) credible, factual works that explain Web3 subject matter.  Before being added to the content pipeline, that data would need to be approved by pre-established subject matter experts in a voting based system much akin to a team approving a transaction through gnosis safe. Furthermore, an on-chain reputation system would be developed so that both content creators and moderators can build their reputations within the ecosystem.  This will build the foundations of an ecosystem for a factual, credible, verifiable content base for all of Web3 much in the same vein as Wikipedia exist today for Web2.

## Uniting the Community

The aspirational pillars outlined above will need the buy-in from the entire Web3 community to become a reality.  Educating the masses about Web3 is no trivial task and won't be done in a quick manner (especially doing so with a global reach in mind).  Today's web users aren't familiar with what's powering their favourite app or how the algorithms are working under the hood.  Maybe people aren't interested in that type of thing and that's a fair assumption with today's perspective of the web; however, Web3 is looking to provide people an opportunity to learn and be part of the ecosystem in a way that hasn't been available before.  We are entering an age where transparency, public goods and DAO communities are going to be driving innovations in this new internet we are all trying to forge.  To make this a reality and to give the globe the best chance to change the narratives of the past and present, the community needs to start working more closely together (instead of against each other) to make Web3 what we all envision it to be.
